#  Project: Data Modeling with Postgres

## Introduction

A startup called Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. Currently, they don't have an easy way to query their data, which resides in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

The goal is to create a Postgres database with tables designed to optimize queries on song play analysis. To achieve the goald, we need to create a database schema and ETL pipeline for this analysis. 

## Data

There are two dataset.

The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID.

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

## Schema for Song Play Analysis

Using the song and log datasets, we create a star schema optimized for queries on song play analysis. This includes the following tables.

#### Fact Table - songplays
songplays - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

#### Dimension Tables - users, songs, artists, time
users - users in the app
user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level

songs - songs in music database
song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration

artists - artists in music database
artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude

time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday

## Files Description

etl.ipynb: the ETL process for each tables
etl.py: the ETL pipeline

create_tables.py: create database and tables

test.ipynb: test if table and value insert correctly

sql_queries.py: define the common SQL queries, including drop table, create table, insert record, query 

## How to use

#### create table
run creat_tables.py
#### insert records
run etl.py
#### use test.ipynb to test

see demo.ipynb for some example results from query


